[HTML/CSS] Restore preproessor lost file (#165)
CodeYourFuture/syllabus: docs/git/branches.md

- Work with another trainee on non-conflicting changes to a single branch.

## What is a branch?

We saw in the first Git lesson that Git stores the history of your changes as a list of commits, one after the other:

TODO: Image of commit history

Since then, you've been pressing a button in GitHub Desktop called "Commit to main" to make a new commit. But what does that "to main" mean? main is called a _branch_, which is a list of commits. It turns out, you can have more than one branch, and they can share some commits if they want:

TODO: Image of two divergent branches with shared history, highlighting which is shared and which is divergent.

### Why would we want to do this?

There are a few reasons. The main one is: So you can work on more than one thing at the same time.

Let's look at our repo of recipes. Right now, it contains one recipe, for a brownie in a mug. There are a couple of changes we want to make:

1. We want to add an optional topping to put on top of the brownie (maybe ice cream, maybe you have a better idea). We'll need to add it both as an extra ingredient, and an extra step at the end.

> 2. A lot of recipes start with a story of how the author found them, or some time they've really enjoyed the recipe. We want to add a story, before the "What you need" section.

Reviewer: \beginsnark
Can we make sure it's a really unnecessarily long story that takes ages to scroll through before you get to the thing you actually wanted to read?
\endsnark

EDIT: I'm just going to mark this as resolved immediately. Apologies, I couldn't resist the temptation of the joke 😂

It would be better if we could send out one pull request for the ice cream change, and another for the story. We can do this - with branches:

TODO: Same image as before, of divergent branches, but labelled "ice cream" and "story".

We can then add new commits on top of each branch, separately, and later on merge both branches to main.

### How do we create a new branch?

```console
$ git switch --create story
Switched to a new branch 'story'
```

Let's run through the bits of that command:

`git` - we're running a git command.

`switch` - we're switching to a different branch than the one we're on right now.

`--create` - we want git to create the branch we're switching to.

`story` - the branch we want to switch to (and create) is called `story`.

Running this command doesn't change any of the files in our repository - they stay the same, but if we commit changes, they will only get committed on this branch. If we switched back to the `main` branch, the changes would be un-done. But if we switch back to `story`, they'll come back!

### How do I know what branch I'm on?

> You've already run one command which tells you this, you just may not have noticed!

Reviewer: Have we already run this?

Reviewer 2: I'm hoping `git status` will come up in the intro to git cli class, but may need to edit this if not :)

```console
$ git status
On branch story
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

That's right, `git status` tells you what branch you're on (and about any changes you haven't committed).

You can also find out more about branches by running:

```console
$ git branch
  main
* story
```

`git branch` tells you what branches exist in your repository, and puts a star next to the one you're currently switched to.

### Exercise 1 (15 minutes)

Let's make a new branch, and make a new commit on it.

Create a branch named story, and edit `mug-brownie.md`.

Before the "What you need" heading, make up a story about how the author discovered the recipe, or a time they enjoyed it.

When you've written a bit, make a commit (make sure to give it a good commit message!)

Explore the history with `git log` - make sure you understand the commits in your history and why they're there.

### Switching back to main

Can you guess how to switch back to the `main` branch?

> What do you think will happen when you do?

Reviewer: Sorry if this is overly nitpicky for this level of review, but I'd make sure the emphasis is on what happens to your *files* when you switch.

What will the history look like?

### Exercise 2 (5 minutes)

Switch back to the `main` branch (hint: The command to run is like the one you used to create a new branch, but you're not creating a new one).

Look at the contents of `mug-brownie.md` - what's changed?

Explore the history with `git log` - make sure you understand the commits in your history and why they're there.

> Share with the class what you saw.

Reviewer: In the past I've found stuff like this a bit unstructured. Discussing with a buddy/small group (and maybe reporting back to the larger group) works better.

### Managing multiple branches

TODO: Talk about how when you create a branch, it will share the history of whatever branch you were on before you created the new one, and that the trainees should generally make sure to branch from `main`.

TODO: Talk about naming branches.

TODO: Explain that we can create multiple branches, and have multiple in-flight pull requests. Benefits: If one idea needs a lot of work it doesn't block the others, reviewer can focus on one thing, keeps changes small.

### Exercise 3 (10 minutes)

Make another branch based on `main` called `extra-topping`.

Add a new topping to the recipe. Make sure to include it both in the ingredients list, and the steps.

Commit your changes.

### Managing branches for pull requests

> TODO: Talk through pushing branches to remotes, and making pull requests from them

Reviewer: Might be a good idea to discuss pushing `main` to a remote first? They wouldn't be familiar with that yet.

### Teacher-led example

> TODO: Make a pull request from one of your branches. Merge it. Delete the branch. Explain that it's ok to delete the branch because we know the changes are safely on `main`.

Reviewer: It's not the best formatting of all time but `git log --graph` might be useful here?

---
id: branches
title: Branches
sidebar_label: Lesson
---

import Feedback from "@theme/Feedback";

> So far, we've seen that we can use git to share our work, get review, and view history. This week, we're going to learn more about how we can use git to work together in groups, and to work on more than one thing at the same time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So far, we've seen that we can use git to share our work, get code reviews, and view history. This week, we're going to learn more about how we can use git to work together in groups, and to work on more than one thing at the same time.
```

> For this class, we're going to use the git CLI, but everything we're doing can also be done in GitHub Desktop. Remember you can always check the [cheatsheet](cheatsheet-cli)!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this class, we're going to use the Git CLI, but everything we're doing can also be done in GitHub Desktop. Remember you can always check the [cheatsheet](cheatsheet-cli)!
```

In this class, we're going to work with a GitHub repository of recipes.

CodeYourFuture has made a _template_ repository on GitHub. Go to https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/GitExampleRecipes and click on "Use this template" to make a repository owned by your user account which contains the right files. Then clone your newly created repository onto your computer. You're going to do all of your exercises in your copy of this repository.

> ## Learning objectives

Reviewer 3: Could we move the LOs right to the top of the lesson? Just to bring it in line with the other classes
